Let's now set up our 3-D character in unity as well.
If we come over to the Inspector I've chosen the player Idol and over here in the rig section we've
got two different animation types that we can use.
Well actually we have a couple but the two main ones here are generic and humanoid.
And if we choose humanoid and we click apply you can see it's gone through and in the configure settings
we get a checkmark which means yes it's actually been approved as a humanoid character and that's good.
But over here real quick it's saying that a material is being used as a normal map.
You can see hair normal.
It's saying that it needs to be marked as a normal map.
So we just need to click pics now so we can do that there.
OK.
So over here if we click configure we can kind of see what it's trying to do.
Let me click this and now we can see our character here in the 3D view.
If we click all right and left click you can tumble and then you can click the middle mouse button to
pan.
And of course scroll the mouse button to Zoom.
But what it's done is it's gone through and taken a look at our rig and it's tried to match up the bones
that we created with its standard default bones that it wants to use within the humanoid rigging system.
And this rigging system is really so that you can create a character and then apply and retarget animations
save from the Unity assets store or anywhere as long as it's configurable by the system.
So having a character that works with the humanoid system here really kind of opens up the possibilities
of using animations from all over but it doesn't always work great because it assumes that you've got
a very standard humanoid character a character with one head two legs two arms fingers and thumbs.
And if you don't have that like our character here we don't have hands and fingers and thumbs we have
kind of these big claw type things.
Look at what it tries to do.
Let me scroll down here.
Look at what it's done it's tried to shape our Lego claw hands into some sort of hand that it can recognize
and it didn't quite work.
So let's come over here to the left hand here and let's take a look.
So it thinks it sees a ring finger and a pinky and that's why it's put them one right next to another.
We could go through and try and change these to a thumb.
Right.
We could use thumb one for the thumb proximal.
We could use them two for the thumb.
Intermediate and that might work but I really don't think it's going to help us a whole lot what I think
we need to do is just remove these.
So the system isn't trying to do this and to do that you can just come over and click on the little
circle here and then scroll up and click none.
So that's what I'm going to do.
I want to go ahead and just take all of these out none on the click on this one here scroll up choose
none.
So I need to go through and do all of these for each of the fingers and each of the hands here.
So when I click this one and scroll that up and none.
So there we go.
So now it isn't going to try and do that.
And over here as well let's click on the right hand and let's tell it to not even try just to not even
try with our fingers for these hands
all right.
And none.
There we go.
So we've taken those out of the running we're not even going to allow unity to deal with that at all.
As for say the body and the head it all looks pretty good.
It's found bones that it can use in the head here too and it all looks pretty good.
So now that we've configured that the way we want we can scroll down here and click apply and then done
and then we go.
Now in addition we need to set up the animation for this particular character as well.
So if I click animation let's take a look at this.
Now we have a lot of things going on here.
A lot of actions that have come over from blender that unity is seeing as possible animations.
And we know that this just isn't the case.
We only created this one from zero to 143 it's actually from one to 144 but it's seeing it here as zero
to 143 so we need to reconfigure all of this.
So let's do is just begin at the top.
And let's just delete these with the minus button here I'll click that and that again and again and
again I want to keep this one here.
But then these two can go away like that.
All right.
So this is just the idol.
We'll just call this idol and we go.
And if we scroll down we can see how unity is trying to figure out if this particular animation loops
if it's a cycling animation and it is we know it is because that's what we set it up to be.
So we want to turn on loop time here and it's seeing that the beginning of the animation in the end
of the animation match in order for it to loop.
So that's why we're getting these green lights over here.
Let's go ahead and click apply here and now we've got our idle animation setup we can click down here
and hit play and you can see the idle go through its animation and it looks pretty good
I'll hit pause here and now what let's do is let's bring it into the 3D view here and setup the materials
and the textures so to do that I'm going to just take this player idle and drag it up into the hierarchy
window right up here and there we are there's our character we need to give it a material because the
material in Blender didn't come through properly here.
We need to come down here and right click shoes create and create a material.
Let's do that and let's call this character I can then take this material drag it over here and just
drop it right on the character and there it is.
If we come over and click on our player Idol object over here and scroll down here we can choose our
character and you can see the material here so it's been attached as a component to our character in
the inspector panel here I'll twirl this down and what we need to do is add our color map to the albedo
channel and our normal map to the neural map channel.
So let's do that.
Let's grab our character base color and drag it right over into here and we want our hair normal dragged
right into the normal map here and then we go.
So now you can see the colors the textures.
You can see the sculpt information up here in the hair.
So that's that's looking pretty good.
The only thing I'd like to do is maybe scroll out here and this directional light here you can see it
here.
If we select that I think what I'd like to do is just click on the rotate tool and let's just turn that
until we can see our character a little bit better there we go.
Something like that.
So I click on him and I'll hit the f key to frame that up.
There we go.
All right.
Now we need to put some materials on the face objects as well.
Let's do that if I come over here into the hierarchy.
I can search for things with a particular keyword.
So I'm just going to search for face.
And now you can see the three objects that have face in them.
So this face idle.
Here we go.
What I need to do is create a material for this so I'll right click choose create material we'll call
this face idle m80 so then let's just take this base idle material and drag it over here you can see
the blender material is still on here but it's having trouble dealing with it.
So we'll just take this new unity material and drag it over here and drop it and that will replace that.
So let's go over to the face.
Jump let's create a new unity material we'll call this base jump in 80 I'll select the object drag the
material onto it and then we go we can see it there one more let's create a new material and we'll call
this face run.
You may t select the object and drag it on.
There we go.
All right.
So we've got the idol jump and the run.
OK so now let's just click on the X here to remove that search term and there we go.
Now we're back here and what we can do is we can change the type of material these are.
So if I choose that base idol material it's currently a standard material and what we're actually going
to need for this ultimately is an unlit transparent material and I'll go ahead and change that over
here too.
Here's the jump.
We'll call this unlit transparent and the run unlit transparent.
So that's what we're gonna need for those.
Now while we're working with the 3D character we can go ahead and disabled these I can select this and
uncheck this and that will remove it from the 3D view at least temporarily while we're working with
the 3D character.
And then we go OK so we have our character brought into unity.
We have some materials created.
We've applied our textures in the next video.
Let's see what that humanoid rigging system can actually do for us.
We'll go into the unity assets store get some character animations and apply it to our character to
see how it works.